Title: The secret to poetry
Date: 2013-04-19

I just finished Nicholson Baker's *The Anthologist*. It was a fairly quick read, in Baker's smart, introspective, stream-of-consciousness style, filled with well-observed detail and unabashed(ly interesting) digressions. There are funny moments, beautiful ones, poignant ones, and all throughout a comfortable verisimilitude. It seemed to me an honest and convincing portrayal of what might be going through a poet's mind and how they look at the world and think about poetry. The protagonist also makes a pretty good case for rhyme and meter, and makes me realize that I do need to give those more attention and study if I'm serious about continuing to attempt to write poetry.

Speaking to class of poets, he manages to summon up a wonderful piece of advice, which I think deserves thinking about. In response to the question, and I paraphrase, how do you begin writing a poem?

> I said, "Well, I'll tell you how. I ask a simple question. I ask myself: What was the very best moment of your day?" The wonder of it was, I told them, that this one question could lift out from my life exactly what I will want to write a poem about. Something that I hadn't known was important will leap up and hover there in front of me, saying I am&mdash;I am the best moment of the day.... Often, I went on, it's a moment when you're waiting for someone, or you're driving somewhere, or maybe you're just walking diagonally across a parking lot and you're admiring the oil stains and the dribbled tar patterns. One time it was when I was driving past a certain house that was screaming with sun-litness on its white clapboards, and then I plunged through tree shadows that splashed and splayed over the windshield. I thought, Ah, of course&mdash;I'd forgotten. You, windshield shadows, you are the best moment of the day. "And that's my secret, such as it is," I said.