Title: Island Vacation
Date: 2013-09-27

Part 1 (2012)

It rained again today.
Sand's less white than beige
and not quite fine
but still I felt the quivering
of the spaces between my fingers.
I walked as slowly as memory-
you and me once did
on that rainy beach more beautiful than this.

Now it's too quiet.
Across this ocean pretending to be a lake
another island where you are not
unrolls along the horizon.
Glassy gray reflects bright blue.
Fellow travelers slice dark lines across the water
that, like them, disappear.
And what about these, my lines for you?

What about the curve of you
once right next to, once touching me?
Just another skein of rain from sky to sea?
What of our once-parallel trajectories,
the sharing of presents and histories
in effortless communion?
The same saltwater may lap at all beaches
but will our footsteps again follow the same shore?

Here's another dispatch from where I am
to where you are. When you open this,
remember my lips against your forehead.
Remember the nearness of my smile
and the soft clarity of my voice beside your ear
and know that I think of you always.
Know that though my lines may sometimes bend
they always - will always - reach for you.

Part 2 (2013)

Here where they drive on the wrong side
with their rented motorbikes
I pedal myself to and fro.
Here where we all walk like intruders,
dress with fashionable disregard,
and dance until moonset
as if trying to close the gap
between ourselves and ourselves.

Here where the food is fresh and sweet and spicy.
Here where the rain never lasts for long.
Here where good cheer seems mandatory.
Here where the parties last forever.
Here where perception is easy to alter,
memory easier to lose,
and easiest of all to fall
into the unbroken horizon.

Here where like locusts in a frenzy
they swarm and use themselves up
leaving behind only silent husks,
here where you touch each other briefly
and without care,
here where we are all far from where we should be.
Here where none of this even matters;
not until it's time to go back home.

Here where barely anyone speaks my language
I came to find my voice,
but the quietness of the day defeats me
so I sit and let the sound engulf me
and a stillness hold me in place.
Here where they come to lose themselves
I came not to find myself, exactly,
but just what holds everything together.